166
TINS  July 1979
also play a role in transduction of photic tion of greatly heightened exploratory
2. Iversen, S. D. (1977) In: A. R. Cools, A. H. M.
information in man. Parker and col-
activity?.Under  natural conditions,
Lohman and J. H. L. van den Bercken (eds),
leagues, who studied the sleep-related
 exploratory, foraging, and reproductive
Psychobiology of the Striatum, North-Holland,
Amsterdam, pp. 99-118.
prolactin rhythm in a group of young men,
 habits of most animal species are closely
3. Katz, J. B., Valases, C., Catravas, G. N. and
reported that each REM period was
tied to daily and seasonal light changes.
Wright, S., Jr (1978) Life Sci. 22, 445-450.
accompanied by a small drop in the
 Thus, provision must be made for the eye
4. Krieger, D.T. and Glick, S. (1971) J. Clin.
otherwise elevated curve of prolactin
 regularly to send unambiguous informa-
Endocrinol.Metab.33,847-850
secretion during nocturnal sleep.
5. McGinty, D. J., Harper, R. M. and Fairbanks,
tion with respect to light and darkness to
M.F. (1974) Adv. Sleep Res. 1. 173-201.
Although there is much evidence to
regions of the brain which regulate these
V.B.1976
suggest that sleep may be more important
functions. Regular pulses provided by
Psychoneuroendocrinol.1,265-279.
than light in regulating a number of
Iateral eye movements isolate this vital
7. Mouret, J.(1975EEG Clin.Neurophysiol. 38,
neuroendocrine cycles in man, blunting of
light detecting mechanism from transient
653-657.
the sleep-related growth hormone peak
8. Parker, D. C., Rossman, L. G. and Vanderlaan,
cues provided by the continuous play of
E.F.(1974)J. Clin.Endocrinol.Metab.38
has been reported in blind humans, and
 light and shadow on the retina during
646-651.
monkeys kept in constant light lose the
 waking. Light-modulated stimulation of
9. Ponder, E. and Kennedy. W. P. (1928) Q. J.
normal circadian rhythm of cyclic AMP in
 the brain by REMs during paradoxical
Exp.Physiol.18,89-110.
the cerebrospinal fluid3s.
sleep also assures regular transmission of
10. Stevens, J. R. and Livermore.A..Jr (1978) Exp.
The anatomical route by
which
 information concerning external light or
Neurol.60.541-556
11. Tsai, C. (1925)J. Comp. Neurol. 39, 173-247.
environmental light modulates central
darkness during sleep. Abnormalities of
12. Tufik, S., Lindsey, C.J. and Carlini, E.A
monoamine activity is still to be deter-
generation or rebound of paradoxical
(1978) Pharmacology 16, 98-105.
mined. In receipt of important projections
sleep associated with schizophrenia and
13.VogelG.W.1975Arch.Gen.Psychiatry 32
from hypothalamus and limbic striatum,
bipolar affective disorders suggest
749-764.
a
the ventral tegmental area of the
 fundamental disturbance in regulation of
14.ZametkinA.,StevensJ.R. and PittmanR
1978) Ann. Neurol. (in press).
mesencephalon is a junction, not only
 this ancient light-modulated neuroendo-
between limbic forebrain and mesen-
crine axis.
cephalic monoamine centres, but could
also receive direct information from the
 Reading list
J.R. Stevens is Professor of Neurology and
retina via several routes.One of these, the
1. Borbeley, A. A. (1978) Prog.Neurobiol. N.Y.
Psychiatry, University of Oregon Health Sciences
10.1-31.
accessory optic tract, originates in special-
CenterPortland,OR 97201U.S.A.
ized peripheral ganglion cells of the retina
which project to the cerebellum via a
Molecular basis of
multisynaptic pathway and whose axons
terminate in a medial terminal nucleus
which lies between the dopamine cells of
benzodiazepine actions
the substantia nigra and the ventral
tegmental area (Fig. 3). The ventral
M. Karobath
tegmental area is also traversed by the
medial forebrain bundle which carries
After 20 years, during which the benzodiazepines have become the most commonly
photic information from the suprachias-
matic nucleus to the thoracic cord, the
prescribed group of drugs, we are now gaining some detailed ideas as to how these minor.
superior cervical ganglion, and the pineal
tranquillizers are exerting their effects. Manfred Karobath summarizes the recent
gland.
breakthroughs which have been made, indicating the influence ofthe benzodiazepines on
GABA receptors, and how these studies brought to light the existence of an endogenous
Role of photic pulsing.
protein which normally occupies the receptors to which the benzodiazepines are attracted
On our rotating planet, the photoperiod
Benzodiazepines belong to the group of
 CNS. This potentiation seems not to be
to which all biological forms are exposed
'minor tranquillizers' and have become
caused by a direct GABA-agonistic effect
varies with season and can thus modulate
among the most frequently prescribed
of the benzodiazepines, since benzo-
exploratory, food-seeking, and reproduc-
 drugs since their introduction into clinical
 diazepines are not able to mimic the
tive behaviour in accordance with the
use in 1960. They have potent anti-
effects of GABA in the absence of
most favourable times for survival.
anxiety, anticonvulsive, muscle relaxant
 endogenous GABA, and they are only
Although many factors appear to affect
and, in higher doses, hypnotic effects, but
active in the presence of functional
the activity cycle in the wild, while
exhibit low toxicity, and have virtually no
GABAergic transmission.
confined in the laboratory to an artificial
peripheral side effects. Despite the use of
12:12 light:dark cycle, the daily activity
benzodiazepines for almost two decades,
The benzodiazepine receptor
rhythm of the rodent is strongly entrained
only recently have indications for their
A direct biochemical approach for the
by light. Lateral eye movements, and thus
 mechanism of action been obtained with
 study of drug actions was made possible by
potentially REMs, apparently participate
electrophysiological and biochemical
the introduction of ligand techniques
in linking the environmental light cycle
methods. Electrophysiological investiga-
which have been extensively used to
to the circadian excitability of the
tions in a number of laboratories have
identify and characterize high affinity
mesolimbic catecholamine system.
provided evidence that the benzo-
binding sites for a large number of
As Sue Iversen has pointed out, the
diazepines potentiate the effects of
neurotransmitters, or of drugs affecting
amphetamine-induced hyperactivity
y-aminobutyric acid(GABA),an import-
neurotransmitter
systems.
Such an
re-
sponse in the rat is actually a manifesta-
ant neurotransmitter substance in the approach has led to the discovery of.
1scvier/North-Holland Biomedical Press 1979
